TypeScript (#1819)
enkidevs/curriculum: typescript/introduction/tsc-interfaces-classes/tsc-interfaces-intro.md

---
author: kapnobatai136

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

# Introduction to Interfaces

---
## Content

In TypeScript, the shape that represents a collection of key-value pairs is an object.

One way to declare a type of an object is with `{}`:

```ts
function f(companyObj: { name: string }) {
  console.log(companyObj.name);
}
const someObject = {
  name: "Enki"
};
f(someObject);
```

It won't care about the order of the properties or if any additional ones exist.

> If we wanted to reuse the type of `companyObj` at multiple places in our program, we can extract it into an interface:

Reviewer: not the only way to do it - there are also type aliases: https://pawelgrzybek.com/typescript-interface-vs-type/
which allow for the computation of their signature

Reviewer: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/advanced-types.html#interfaces-vs-type-aliases
more info on this

let's maybe add an insight on this as well?

Reviewer 2: I think that should be moved into the next course right? Not needed for the intro one?

Reviewer: why? type aliases and interfaces are very similar and almost used interchangeably - why should we, in the intro, say that interfaces are the only way to do it

Author: I don't think we say that it is **the only way to do it**, but rather it is **one of the ways to do it**

```ts
interface Company {
  name: string;
}

function f(companyObj: Company) {
  // ...
}

function g(otherCompanyObj: Company) {
  // ...
}
```
Now both `f` and `g` expect the same shape as their argument.

Besides allowing us to define the shape of an object, interfaces let us declare properties as optional or read only:

```ts
interface Enki {
  // an optional comment

>   comment?: string;

Reviewer 3: One of the sad parts of TS is that it doesn't support optionals and this enforce optional chaining based on it :/

>   comment?: string;

Reviewer: this is not specific to interfaces - you can do the same on objects / with type aliases 

I think these properies like optional, readonly etc can be presented in the 3rd workout at the end

  // a read only url
  readonly url: string;
}

let e: Enki = {
  // we are only adding the url
  // no need to add a comment
  // because it's optional
  url: 'enki.com'
}

// cannot write to a readonly url
e.url = 'notallowed.com'; // Cannot assign to 'url' because it is a read-only property.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Worth mentioning typescript type aliases in another insight. and how it differs from interfaces:
1. type aliases can be defined for any type, not just objects
2. type aliases cannot be redefined (in same scope maybe?) https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/#code/C4TwDgpgBAYg9nKBeKBvAUFKA7AhgWwgC4oBnYAJwEtsBzdAX3XVElgWTUyl1uJwCu+AEYQKjIA
2. Interfaces support declaration merging https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-merging.html https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/#code/JYOwLgpgTgZghgYwgAgGIHt3IN4ChnIhwC2EAXMgM5hSgDmuAvrrqJLIihlngXHeUIBXYgCNoTFgnQhqyGJgrdkAXhz5CJQQHIAEsG0AaDf0EBGM0yA

Reviewer 3: Also, for some reason people prefer interfaces over type aliases, for reasons I don't yet understand

Reviewer 3: More info: https://stackoverflow.com/a/52682220/1812633

---
author: kapnobatai136

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

# Introduction to Interfaces

---
## Content

> The main data type that you can use as a collection of values and behaviors is called an *object*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In TypeScript, the shape that represents a collection of key-value pairs is an object.

One way to declare a type of an object is with `{}`:
```

```ts
function f(companyObj: { name: string }) {
  console.log(companyObj.name);
}
const someObject = {
  name: "Enki"
};
f(someObject);
```

> The function will verify that `companyObj` has a property called `name` of type `string`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TypeScript will verify that `companyObj` has a property called `name` of type `string`. 
```

```ts
function f(companyObj: { name: string }) {
  console.log(companyObj.name);
}
const someObject = {
  name: "Enki",
  product: "EnkiApp" // ignored without an error
};
f(someObject);
```

> It won't care about the order of the properties or if any additional ones exist.

Reviewer 2: Now that I think of it, this is not relevant for this particular insight and I think we should remove it.

If we wanted to reuse the type of `companyObj` at multiple places in our program, we can extract it into an interface:

```ts
interface Company {
  name: string;
}

function f(companyObj: Company) {
  // ...
}

function g(otherCompanyObj: Company) {
  // ...
}
```

> 
> This is just a short introduction to interfaces, with future workouts going into more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now both `f` and `g` function expect the same shape as their argument.

This is just a short introduction to interfaces, with future workouts going into more details.
```

---
## Practice

Create an interface for the object:

```ts
const myObject = {
  name: 'foobar',
  isTrue: false
}

??? MyInterface {
  name: ???;
  isTrue: ???;
}
```

* interface
* string
* boolean
* 'foobar'
* false
* number

> * Interface

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
* Interface

---
## Revision

Will the following code cause an error?

```ts
interface Enki {
  note?: string,
}

let e: Enki = {};
```

???

* No
* Yes
````
